Alright, so, um, we're gonna be in
Ephesians chapter 6, so we've been
walking through the book of Ephesians
since the beginning of time, I feel
like, since the beginning of the year.
Um, and we're actually at the
conclusion of it, which is, uh,
really been one of my favorite parts.
Um, and we're gonna read from verse
10, again Ephesians chapter 6.
We're gonna read from
verse 10 through, um, 17.
Um, we're gonna be dealing mainly with
verses 14 and 15, um, and, but, to read
it all in context is so important, um, but
here's what we've been, as we walk through
this last week and as we even think again
through it today, is everybody, lost or
saved, knows Jesus, doesn't know Jesus,
is walking through a spiritual battle.
Um, I think if you ask any.
military, veteran, or current person
serving, and ask this question, Hey,
was there ever a point you didn't
know you were in a war or in a battle?
And they would probably laugh and
say, Well, no, it's logical, right?
There's bullets flying at us,
there's bombs, there's people, you
know, we're seeing them come towards
us, whatever it is, you name it,
they knew they were in a battle.
But sometimes as followers of Jesus,
and even those who would not claim
to be a follower of Jesus, we don't
see the enemy, because the enemy...
What tends to be invisible to this
idea we learned last week is we tend to
think our enemy is each other, people.
And if you don't believe me, go
on social media and you'll see it.
You'll see people
bantering back and forth.
Um, you'll see divisions in family.
Because we find and we think that
our greatest enemy is the person
on the other side of the screen.
The person who disagrees with
my opinion and your opinion.
And the thing we learned last week is
that our enemy, um, Um, is the devil.
He was very clear in
naming that in this text.
And, um, he has schemes, right?
Um, and so, what we, what we kind of
talked with this week, we're going to talk
about next week, what we talked about last
week, what we're going to talk about this
week, what we're going to talk about even
following week, is that we, as believers,
in this battle, fight from victory.
And that idea of fighting
from victory sounds...
weird.
And maybe the reason why I think
about that is if you were to...
Take, let's just take last night's game.
Anybody watched the NBA
playoffs last night?
Great game.
I didn't watch it, saw the highlights.
Um, Milwaukee won, if
anybody wants to know.
They won, like, last second stuff.
If you were to go to one of those teams
and say, Hey, before you step on the
court tonight, you're a guaranteed win.
Guaranteed win.
They'd laugh at you, right?
Because there's no guarantees
in sports like that, right?
Now, you can have a lot of confidence.
But as a believer, You
have a guaranteed win.
Well, the guaranteed win, though,
is not based upon your strength.
It's based upon God's strength.
And so what we learned last week in
the first, um, four verses of this,
uh, chapter, three, four verses, um,
is this, is that we have, uh, and I'm
just going to read the first couple of
verses just to kind of catch us up here.
It says, Finally, and this is
verse 10, Finally be strengthened
by the Lord and His vast strength.
Um, and so first off, we learned that
As believers, Paul's reminding us to be
strengthened by the Lord's vast strength,
not just by his strength or his somewhat
strength or his strengths in these
areas, it's his complete vast strength.
Um, and then it goes on and it
says that it's put on the full
armor of God so you can stand
against the schemes of the devil.
So we realize that we have an enemy, um,
and, and this just, it stuck with me, if
anybody's familiar with Harry Potter, and
you know that, I can't even say it, right?
He who must not be named.
Well, guess what?
We can name our enemy.
Paul does.
It's the devil.
Or Satan.
Or, as we're gonna learn, um,
he had many helpers, right?
Um, he called them rulers and
authorities and cosmic powers.
I think this is in this next verse, right?
For our struggle is not against flesh
and blood, but against these rulers
and authorities and against the
cosmic powers and darkness, against
evil and spiritual forces in heaven.
Um, and so he attacks us
with these schemes, right?
So what does that mean?
The enemy attacks us with cunning
acts, deceit, trickery, lies.
Um, if you look at a couple
different words, devil means accuser.
Satan means adversary to God, right?
An enemy to God.
And so we, as believers, have an enemy.
But even, if you're in this room,
you would say, Hey, I haven't made
the decision to follow Jesus yet.
Yes, yes, you have an enemy.
Um, and he is trying to control your life,
or he is controlling your life, right?
So, uh, this enemy...
Reminds us that we are in a battle.
So, if you didn't wake up this morning,
knowing you were in a battle, sorry
to bring bare bad news, you are.
But it's good to know
that we're in the battle.
If we're gonna be in it, we
better know that we're in it.
And if we're in it, now we
can fight against the enemy.
And if we know that Jesus
wins, He's already won.
He's already conquered the grave.
He's already conquered death.
If we know He's already won, that is
absolutely who I want to fight my battles.
I don't know about you guys.
If I know I'm gonna win every
single battle that I endure, then
I'm going to be on the right team,
the winning team, which is Jesus.
And so we learned, right, that
we have been given this vast
strength as the enemy attacks us.
So that's how we will fight our enemy,
um, is with God's vast strength.
And He says His vast strength.
He even affirms this in verse 13, For this
reason, take up the full armor of God.
The full armor of God is what
we will use to defeat our enemy.
He says, so that you may be able to
resist in the evil day and having
prepared everything to take your stand.
So this is something that we
addressed last week and I'll
continue to affirm this week.
Number one, in order to win the battle
and receive God's vast strength to do
that, you have to realize you're weak.
You have to realize you're in need of God.
of a Savior, from your sins, from the
life that you are living, from the enemy's
tactics to deceive you, you need God.
If you don't recognize that, then
you won't ever receive His strength
and you won't ever win the battle.
Number two, you have to realize that
you can't defeat this enemy on your own.
Um, I speak to men on this more than
maybe women, maybe you resonate with this.
Men are prideful.
We don't need help.
I'm broke down on the side of the
road, don't know how to fix my car,
and somebody stops by, I'm probably, I
got it, I'm on the phone with somebody.
Even if this guy's a mechanic,
I'm prideful, because I
want to handle it on my own.
See, we can't be prideful as believers.
We have to recognize we can't defeat
our enemy without God's vast strength.
So today, we get to talk about this.
We get to talk about what
is God's vast strength.
What does He give us?
What does He equip us with?
So we're gonna walk through this full
armor of God, and we're not gonna walk
through all of it, because as I got going,
I got through three of them, and I'm like,
this is enough for us to unpack today.
So I'm hoping, um, that this will
be encouraging to you as we read
these verses, um, how we fight from
the place of victory in our lives
as believers, and as, if you haven't
given your life to Jesus, how you can
begin to fight from victory and give
your life to Jesus and start that.
So let's start, since I already
read the first several verses,
let's start in verse 14 here.
We're gonna finish reading these verses.
Um, and I'm going to start at verse 13
because it kind of just really pulls it.
So, for this reason, take up the
full armor of God, so that you
may be able to resist in the evil
day, and not, and having prepared
everything to take your stand.
So he says, stand therefore with
truth like a belt around your waist,
righteousness like armor on your
chest, and your feet sandaled with
readiness for the gospel of peace.
In every situation, take up the shield
of faith, with which you can extinguish
all the flaming areas of the evil one.
Take the helmet of salvation and the sword
of the Spirit, which is the Word of God.
And I'll even read verse 18,
because we prayed over this today.
So, verse 18, it says, Pray at
all times in the Spirit with
every prayer and request, and stay
alert with all perseverance and
intercessions for all the saints.
So, I wanted to read all of it, but
we're going to only walk through the
first couple of verses there, and the
first couple of, uh, pieces of armor.
But, if we're going to fight from
the place of victory, we need to
take up this full armor of God.
It's gonna prepare us, and he says this
in verse 13, it's gonna prepare us for
all the enemy's attacks against us.
So we have to take up this vast strength.
So what is the armor, what is the
armor that we're supposed to take up?
Let's look at this first one.
It says the belt of truth.
Um, question.
This is, this really hit
me, um, especially since
I've been dealing with it.
Anybody ever had somebody that
they, was telling them something,
but they struggled to believe
that they were telling the truth?
Anybody?
What about car salesmen?
Anybody ever go there and say, Are
you sure this is your bottom dollar?
Absolutely, sir.
Are you sure?
Because I don't believe you.
Okay, I'll give you another
one which I've dealt with.
Furniture store.
Took a year, we still didn't get our
furniture, so we finally cancelled the
order, but I still don't trust them.
Like, there's something in my
mind, I'm like, I don't trust you,
but here's the struggle with car
salesman for me, now this may not
be you, or furniture salesman, or
anybody else that's lying to me.
If I have no knowledge on the situation,
on really what cars values are.
Or really, if furniture is
delayed a year, I have no clue
whether he's lying to me or not.
I kind of have to take him at his word.
So I want you to take that nugget
into whenever God tells us to win
the battles in our life, we've
got to take up this belt of truth.
See, if we don't know what truth is,
the enemy will lie and deceive us.
And if we don't know the truth, we
will be deceived, because the only
thing we have to trust is the lie.
Because we're not skilled in it.
So then we begin to believe the lie.
And that's the only thing we have.
So, that's just why we're looking at
this, is the belt, uh, for a warrior, for,
um, a Roman soldier, would be important.
Um, it's one that's not just worn around
the waist, like the one I'm wearing
today, but most of them, you can visualize
it, that's actually a strap over the
shoulders, because it helps maintain
the weight of the rest of the armor.
So truth is important in this, right?
That's why I believe Paul
brought this up, right?
This truth at the beginning.
And so, we realized with this is
that if, if God is truth, and our
enemy gives us lies, how do we know
that, um, he, he's a liar as well?
I wanted to read verse, um,
John chapter 8 verse 44 says
this, um, speaking of the devil.
It says, You are your father
the devil, and you want to
carry out your father's desires.
He was a murderer from the beginning,
and does not stand in truth,
because there is no truth in him.
When he tells a lie, he speaks from
his own nature, because he is a
liar, and he is the father of lies.
So, the enemy is lying to us, and he
uses, I would say this, half truths.
You ever heard of half truths?
It's enough truth to kind
of confuse you, right?
They kind of put the truth at the
beginning, and the end, and in the middle.
It's a little bit flaky.
And you believe it, because you
feel like, well, this is at least
part of what God says, you know.
And this is part of what God
says, but in the middle, it's not.
Um, and we know as, as Jesus,
whenever He was baptized and taken
away for 40 days, right, fasting and
praying, that the, the devil came
and began to quote scripture to Him.
And Jesus began to quote it in
context, which was interesting.
Um, because it was truth.
And so I'm always reminded of John
17, 17, who says, His word is truth.
He says, sanctify me by the truth, and
so God's word is truth, and this is why
it's important for us to know the truth.
Um, but I want to ask this question.
I love asking questions
and engaging you guys.
Um, what lies, maybe, have you
heard from the enemy, from the
devil, from someone maybe trying
to, again, the enemy uses people.
What lies have you heard, um,
that you've had to remind yourself
of God's truth to overcome?
What lies have you heard in your life?
That you've had to use
God's word to overcome.
You're not worthy.
That's a great one.
What's, what, what does God say?
You are worthy, right?
You're, yeah, you're a
child of God, absolutely.
That's good.
What else?
You're not able to do it, yeah.
You don't have the power,
you don't have the strength.
You're not good enough, you're
not smart enough, right?
Yeah.
So what, what does God say?
Because He gives us our
vast strength, right?
The only way we can accomplish
things is through His vast strength.
So we realize when the enemy
says you're not good enough.
I'm not.
He is.
See, I love sometimes reminding myself
of that in the moments that I feel weak.
I get to admit, yeah, you
are weak, but he isn't.
Because he's stronger than me, right?
He who is in you is stronger
than he who is in the world.
Scripture.
Truth.
Somebody give me another one.
That you've been told that you've had to
use God's word, His truth, to overcome it.
You're unlovable.
What does God say?
You are loved, right?
He says, you know, one of the greatest
pictures is that Jesus came and
died for us knowing that we would
reject Him, that we had rejected Him.
I've heard this statement
before, um, and this idea of
when we reach people for Jesus.
I remember coming to church, um,
for a year before I gave my life to
Christ, and here's what I thought.
Every time I came to church, it's
like, I've gotta get better, I've
gotta clean myself up, and once I get
right, perfect, I'll come to the Lord.
See, that's not the Lord's ways.
The Lord says, Come to me,
all you who are weary, right?
And I'll give you rest.
It's we come to Jesus,
and Jesus cleans us up.
So this idea behind, we don't
clean a fish before we catch
it, anybody ever done that?
Surprising to me, right?
But you're gonna catch it, gonna lead
people to faith in Jesus, and let the
Word of God and Jesus clean them up.
And just so you know,
I'm not clean yet either.
I'm still working out
some of those things.
It's not okay to stay where I'm at.
And I'm continually going to the
Lord and ask for forgiveness.
But it's just that reminder that we
have to consistently go to the Lord and
proclaim His truths rather than the lies
that say we're not even good enough.
And you guys could probably
think of several more.
But let's look at the first time
that the enemy deceived someone.
So if any, if you guys have your
Bibles with you, go to Genesis
chapter 3 uh, verses 1 through 6.
If you want, you know, I don't
know about you guys, whenever I
see somebody do something Wrong,
and I've done that wrong before.
It kind of gives me a little bit
like, Ugh, I'm not the only one.
So let's look at, let's look at
two people who failed, Um, to
be deceived by, by the enemy.
Um, and they, they really got
to see a half truth, right?
So let's look at this, Genesis chapter 3.
We're gonna look at verses 1 through
6, Um, and see what was said here.
Alright.
So it says here now, the serpent
was the most cunning of all the wild
animals that the Lord God had made.
He said to the woman, did God really say
you can't eat from any tree in the garden?
And the woman said to the serpent, we
may eat at the fruit from the trees
and the garden, but about the fruit of
the tree in the middle of the garden.
God said, you must not eat
or touch it or you will die.
No, you will not die.
The serpent said to the woman,
in fact, God knows what.
That when you eat it, your eyes
will be opened, and you'll be
like God, knowing good and evil.
And so the woman saw that the
tree was good, and for food, and
delightful to look at it, and that it
was desirable for obtaining wisdom.
So she took some of the fruit, and
ate it, and she also gave some to her
husband, who was with her, and he ate it.
And both of their eyes were opened,
and they knew that they were naked,
so they sewed fig leaves together
and made coverings for themselves.
First time we see the
enemy deceive someone.
It was Adam and Eve in the beginning.
And this is how it all started, right?
The fall.
And the enemy, it was interesting.
The Eve even responded with truth.
But when the enemy came back with,
But no, this is really what God meant.
She quickly said, Oh, it does look good.
And she moved on, right?
Faulting her, even though I do say
it was Eve that took the bite first.
So men, I think we're off the hook here.
Um, no, that's not true.
But what I would say is, is if Adam and
Eve can be deceived, we can be deceived.
You know, I've, I've heard
this statement before.
I'm a Christian, I wouldn't do that.
I'm strong in my faith,
I wouldn't do that.
No, no, no, no, no.
That is exactly what the
enemy wants you to think.
He wants to deceive you.
So it's interesting, when we look at this
text, that the enemy wants to either get
you to doubt God, as we see in Genesis 3,
to doubt what God said, or he wants you
to neglect the Word of God completely.
Because if you neglect it, and a lie
comes, you don't even know the truth
to even begin to push back on that.
I believe, and the reason why I believe
this is because it's something even
I've struggled with, right, is we don't
spend time in the Word with the truth.
And when we don't spend time in
the Word with the truth, people
are ignorantly, and that word is
just meaning you just didn't know.
You're ignorantly
following the enemy's ways.
But God has given us a clear way to
know His truth, to overcome the enemy.
So, um, so in order to fight
against the enemy, we have to
put on this belt of truth, right?
We talked about how the belt
is so important for a warrior,
it's so important for us, right?
It holds up the rest of the
armor we're gonna talk about.
So we need to start putting on
the belt of truth each morning.
And this is just a reminder for me,
since I've been walking through this
text, every day we should wake up and
put the belt of truth, which means
we should be spending time in God's
Word, into our lives, to be ready for
our day, to go into battle, right?
Anybody ever heard, and this
is just kind of affirming this,
anybody ever heard how the U.
S.
government deals with, um, the fake money?
How they prepare for it?
Anybody?
How do they prepare for it?
They study the real kind, right?
So for you, it's not about, hey, let's
figure out all the 97, 000 ways that
the enemy's gonna try to deceive me.
No, spend the majority of
your time on the real truth.
Then when the enemy comes,
you'll know when it's a lie.
It's the same way, okay?
So let's look at the next, right?
The next set of armor.
So we have the belt of truth, but then
he says, um, and I'll just read this
out of here, um, and righteousness
like the armor on your chest.
And so many of you would probably
have a version that says the
breastplate of righteousness.
Here's what I think about.
There's many times I wish I would have
had the breastplate of righteousness
when I got the wind knocked out of me.
Anybody ever had somebody just
like kick you in the stomach or you
went over the top of your bike and
you landed right in your stomach
and you lost all your wind, right?
Um, and then those moments that
I'm like, man, I wish I would
have had that breastplate of
righteousness or a real armor, right?
Um, but this is one of the many
reasons why those soldiers wore this.
The most important vitals in your body
are what's behind that plate, that
metal plate, or some would have chains,
right, this armor, uh, to protect
their most vital organs that could kill
them, right, other than their head.
Um, and so it was an
important aspect, right?
Um, so when we look at what righteousness
is, It's the condition of being in
a right relationship with the Lord.
Um, and so this can only happen through
our total dependence and faith in God.
And when we think about this,
this is part of our defense
against the attacks of the enemy.
Right living.
Um, and so it's not just knowing
the truth, so the belt of truth, but
it's applying the truth in our lives.
So they go together.
Not just knowing the truth,
but applying the truth.
So here's a challenge to
begin thinking through.
I'm gonna give you some
time to think through this.
Whenever I think about my life,
right, if I'm thinking about armor,
I don't want there to be any holes
in my, my, my, at least my, we're
talking about vital organs here.
I don't want any holes, any places.
But any area of our life that we have
not surrendered to the Lord, to the truth
that God has in His Word, are open areas
where the enemy wants to come in, right?
The enemy's looking for, in
a battle, they're looking for
the weakest part of your armor.
And they're looking...
To attack you, right?
And to win in that.
And, uh, I was, I was talking
with my kids yesterday.
And, uh, I don't know if any of
you have ever, um, played Ninja.
Anybody, anybody ever played Ninja before?
Seen kids play Ninja?
Ah, there we go.
You understand Ninja.
It's this whole thing, like,
one, two, three, Ninja, and you
get in your Ninja pose, right?
And your whole thing is, and
it depends on your rules.
You're either gonna play, the only thing
you can hit, you know, you can chop their
wrist, or you can chop up to their arm.
But, if you go to swipe at it, you're
gonna swipe at the most vulnerable
arm, but the person on the other
side gets the chance to move, and if
they move, that's their move, right?
But they're looking for
the most vulnerable spot.
I started thinking, I've
watched my kids play Ninja all
the time, this is the enemy.
The enemy is looking, and they're
saying, hey, you know, most of, of
your breastplate is, is covered,
except for this one area, you know,
and that's where I'm gonna go.
So.
So, think about this.
Where is your weakest spot?
So I want us to take time, and I want to
do this in the middle of our service here.
I want you to close your eyes.
I'm going to walk through
a couple of questions.
And I really want you to identify
maybe where your weakness is.
And then, when you find it, I want
you to give it over to the Lord.
So, what is the weakest area, maybe
where you've let down your guard?
And I've left it wide open to the enemy.
And I'm just gonna talk about this, right?
Maybe it's your daily time with God.
Maybe you have not put
on that belt of truth.
Have you covered it?
Or is it wide open?
Maybe it's your purity.
You say, hey, I'm a strong Christian.
I don't need anything to
protect myself against lust.
But, man, maybe that's
an area you just let go.
Maybe it's your time, right?
You're too busy to spend time with God.
You're too busy to do God's work.
You're too busy to go to church.
You left that wide open.
And the enemy's gonna use it.
Maybe it's greed.
Maybe you're unwilling to be
generous because you don't trust
God to provide for you if you give.
Here's one.
Maybe it's self doubt.
Maybe that you're not good enough.
Maybe you're not secure in
your relationship with Jesus.
Maybe it's something I didn't mention.
But I want you to think through
maybe where you're weak.
I want you to take a couple of minutes.
And maybe it's everything I mentioned,
and maybe it's something I didn't mention.
But this is a great time to say, Lord,
let me cover those areas with that
breastplate of righteousness now.
So let's take some time to pray over that.
So as we continue on,
I want to mention this.
This is another thing when we think
about the breastplate of righteousness.
Righteousness is right living.
See, sometimes the enemy, when we
talk about deceiving, the enemy wants
to come in, He wants to question,
again, your relationship with
Jesus, your rightness with Jesus.
And this is the part I want to be
as clear as possible is, um, We're
not perfect this side of heaven.
So we're going to make mistakes, and so
when anyone wants to come in and say,
Hey, during your time of prayer just a
couple of minutes ago, the enemy's sitting
there saying, Hey, I can't believe you
as a believer would leave these three
spots open to your life to be, Oh, you're
horrible, you're not good enough, right?
That's all the enemy.
So, so when you hear this, this is
God saying this, those open areas
on your armor are not good for you.
They are a weakness for you.
And my vast strength can
cover them and protect you.
If you'll just receive them.
See, that's the thing I love about God.
He's not sitting there poking fun,
and trying to make you feel bad, and
like, Oh gosh, you're such a loser.
No, that's the enemy.
God's saying, I've redeemed you, I've
saved you, I've given you hope, I've given
you the ability to overcome these things.
Praise God we have a Savior
that is that type of a God,
rather than just an accuser.
See, that's our enemy.
So that's the ability, when you
know God's word, you know how to
reject those lies and claim truth.
Right?
He's forgiven you for maybe those areas
you've left open, and He's saying, Now.
Forgive and move on and cover them.
Don't just leave them
open, but cover them.
So let's look at the last one
we're going to cover today.
The shoes of the gospel.
Right, the shoes of the gospel.
Let me read, uh, verse 15.
It says, And your feet sandaled with
the readiness for the gospel of peace.
Anybody ever seen, um, a basketball
player or a football player
ever change shoes mid game?
There's something wrong
with the shoes, right?
They're slipping.
Or they've got some kind
of jinx, they think, right?
So they switch shoes.
So shoes are important in sports.
That relates with me, right?
That's trying to win a battle.
Win a game.
See, shoes were important for the
warriors, the people who were going
into battle, the Roman soldiers.
They were important.
Um, and if you look at them, they
have something called hobnails, which
I had to look up what a hobnail was.
Go look it up.
It looks interesting.
But it's basically metal cleats on
the bottom of their shoes so that
they wouldn't slip or fall in battle.
They wanted to make sure they could stand.
Strong in the midst of battle.
Does that make sense?
When we think about a believer,
putting on armor, we want to
stand strong against our enemy.
We don't want to slip.
We want to stand strong.
So when we look at this, um, he's talking
about shoes of the gospel of peace.
And I think about our feet not only allows
us to stand against our enemy and hold
strong, but our feet takes us into battle.
Right?
Our feet takes us into battle.
And I think about this.
Is when we say we're fighting
against our enemy, it's not just
saying no to sin and no to Satan.
It's saying yes to Jesus.
See, there's an offensive side to this.
It's not just about putting up our
armor and taking all the beatings
until we come to see Jesus one day.
But it's actually fighting against and
moving hobnobs on the bottom, right?
And push against the enemy.
with the gospel of peace.
Proclaiming peace over your life, peace
over other people's lives, right, and
sharing that gospel hope with them.
And that's just a challenge to me,
that first, you know, when we take,
think about this piece, right,
first, the gospel piece, in order
to bring it with us into battle,
we have to experience it ourselves.
We have to experience it ourselves.
Um, I, I know this.
I've seen a lot of people sell products.
You know what I'm talking about.
Uh, Avon, or whatever it's called,
and all those different things.
I've seen them sell it.
The only way that they'll be
good at selling it is if they
believe it themselves, if they
believe it works themselves.
And when they do, they're good salesmen.
So the thing is, is have you
received the gospel of peace?
Have you truly received
what God has given us?
And so Romans 5 once says this, Therefore
we have been justified by faith.
We have peace with God
through our Lord Jesus Christ.
So we now have full access to God.
Thank God that we have peace with God.
We have His vast strength.
We have to proclaim that first.
Okay?
It's so important.
Second, that peace from God should
lead us to have peace with man.
So, this goes back to, and I don't
want us to miss this, and I love this
thought of this, he says this back
here in verse 12, that our struggle
is not against flesh and blood.
So, our enemy is not our brothers
and sisters in Christ, and I'll even
say this, our enemies are not those
who are outside the faith of Christ.
They may be the ones that are
spewing hate, or rejecting Christ.
But they're not our enemy.
So we need to have peace with them,
meaning we don't have to agree with them.
But it means that we are
not there to degrade them.
We're not there to, uh,
basically, I guess, make a fool
of yourself as a Christ follower.
We're there to love them, share
the hope, and the gospel peace.
But it's not up to us
to get them to respond.
It's not up to us to make sure that
they're right on every political point, or
every COVID point, or whatever it is ours,
is to share the hope and the gospel peace.
And let God do the work in their hearts.
So our enemy is not them.
It's not each other.
'cause here's the thing, I
see it in the church too.
You guys know, you do.
You see the battles in the church.
It's not each other.
So we have to have not only peace with
God ourselves, but peace with each other.
Because if not, we're
distracted from the real enemy.
See, when we have peace with God, which
means we don't have this struggling
relationship, we don't have a broken
relationship with God and we don't have
a broken relationship with each other,
we now link arms and we put on the.
The belt of truth, and the
breastplate of righteousness,
and the shoes of the gospel.
And we go into battle together
to defeat the one enemy that
we know is behind all of this.
Is behind all of this.
And this is the lastly, right?
We must prepare each day to
share the gospel of peace with
those who haven't experienced it.
See, we know that every person
that doesn't know Jesus before they
leave this world will go to hell.
And that's not me sitting here
saying, Oh gosh, I want to...
Man, pressure you into
giving your life to Jesus?
No.
Or pressure you into going to,
man, you need to go share, share
Jesus just because you're afraid?
No, no, no, like, Yes, there is an eternal
hell, but it's really this idea of God
has given you the gospel of peace to
be offensive with it, which means not
offensive, but offensive to go with it.
We're ready with the gospel of peace
to share it with those who need it.
See, I think of Martin Luther who said
this, he says, it wouldn't matter if Jesus
died a thousand times if no one heard it.
If no one heard it.
So here's the cool part, this mission
team that's here this week with us,
they're going with the gospel of
peace, and they're gonna walk to a lot
of homes and share Jesus with them.
And we're all, hopefully, going to be
at this event at the park on Wednesday.
And we're going to be there, with the
Gospel of Peace, to love people where
they're at, to share the truth with them.
We're not changing the truth to make
sure that we welcome everybody, but
we are clearly giving the truth, and
we're allowing God to work through
that, to lead people to faith in Jesus.
So this idea, again, fighting from
the place of victory, means we
know what it takes to defeat the
enemy, and we know what it takes for
someone else to defeat the enemy.
If you know, this has always been
the thing for me to motivate me.
Cancer's prevalent.
It's even within our team.
Uh, we have a young lady who's 30
who's dealing with breast cancer.
And, uh, seeing her go through that battle
has been difficult, but seeing her use
God's vast strength has been amazing.
But here, here's what I know.
If any of us in this room said, Hey,
someone's given me the cure to cancer,
I don't think there'd be a person that
would run out of this facility and go tell
everyone they can, because they want, and
everybody in here's probably experienced
somebody who's walked through cancer.
They want somebody to
be cured from cancer.
That is a heart strain.
For most of us, we want
them to win that battle.
Here's what God's given you, something
greater than the cure to cancer.
It's a cure to an eternity
separated from God forever.
Why aren't we running with the belt
of truth, with the breastplate of
righteousness, with the shoes of
the gospel of peace, and telling
every single person how they can
experience Jesus and salvation, right?
That's the motivation we should have.
So, so you know, I struggle with that too.
And here's what happens,
the enemy distracts me.
The enemy deceives me.
So those things, when I begin to ask you
to think through maybe where the enemy
is using, you know, the weak part of your
lives, that's exactly what he's doing.
So why do we put on this armor?
Because we want to be used by God for
His glory, for our good, so that others
can experience the hope of the gospel.
So Isaiah 52, uh, 7 says this, How
beautiful on the mountains are the
feet of the herald, who proclaims
peace, who brings news of good
things, and proclaims salvation,
who says to Zion, Your God reigns.
So we started off today asking
this question, How do we fight
from the place of victory?
Paul has simply explained it by taking
up the full armor of God so that we can
prepare for the enemy's attacks, right?
Taking up his vast strength.
So we're gonna take up these three
things, and next week you have
to come back for the other three.
Go read ahead, put those on too.
I'm not telling you not to put those on,
because he says put on the full armor.
But today I want to just take
time to deal with these three.
So the belt of truth, the
breastplate of righteousness,
and the shoes of the gospel.
These are very important
in our lives as believers.
So if you want to, and this is kind of my
last statement to everybody, if you want
to fight for victory, you want to win
the battles in your life, then it takes.
Accepting God's vast strength.
Accepting, really, the payment
that He made on the cross by
His Son, Jesus, for your sins.
For your weakness.
So you have to recognize you're
weak and in need of a Savior.
And know that you will never win the
battles in your life apart from Jesus.
So as we take time, uh, as Brock, um,
leads us through our time of invitation,
I want to be as clear as I can.
So many times the invitation
is just a process in the game.
We're going to stand up
and we're going to sing.
And service is almost over, yay.
But I really want you to sink into this
time, because invitation says this.
God is inviting every
one of you in this room.
I don't care if you've been a
believer your whole life, or
you aren't a believer right now.
God is inviting every one
of you into a next step.
Invitation, that's what it means.
Into a next step of what?
Maybe it's putting on the full armor
of God because you didn't do it.
You haven't been doing it.
Maybe it's...
Actually even recognizing God as your
Lord and Savior, the one that you need.
Maybe you need to give your life to Jesus
today And this is the greatest day to do
that because you're not promised tomorrow
So God says today is the day of salvation
So if you want to talk about what that
means to follow Jesus I'm going to be in
the back during this time of invitation.
I want to talk with you if maybe
you're questioning you're struggling
with your faith and you Don't know how
you're going to overcome the amount
of armor that you haven't been putting
on and you need help Come talk to me.
That's what I'm here for.
I want to walk with you through this.
That's what God's called me and a lot
of people in this room to do, is to
walk with you to discover your purpose
through a relationship with Jesus,
to be fully armored for God's glory.
So I'm going to pray for us, and
after I pray, we'll all stand,
worship, and spend some time giving
those things over to the Lord.
Please come talk to me
if you have questions.
I would love to talk with you.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, you are God, and we are not.
And in this moment, and in this
time walking through this text,
we recognized our weakness.
Um, Lord, even as a pastor sitting up
here, um, I had to remind myself of
some of the weak areas of my armor.
God, may you help each one of us consider
what those areas are and begin to
put on that armor and not neglect it.
Lord, I know this, I
want to win the battle.
I know you've already
won, so I want to win.
And I want to win in such a way that
brings you glory and helps others
experience your hope and your peace.
Um, and so first, Lord, I want
us all to receive that peace.
And so if there's a person in this room,
Lord, that doesn't know you, doesn't,
isn't sure if they know you, Lord, don't
let them leave today without talking about
that with me to consider what that is.
Lord, I pray for every person in this
room, Lord, that they don't leave change,
Lord, that, that they, that they don't
walk out of here the same way they walked
in, but they leave completely change from
your word because they applied it to their
lives and they begin to put on that armor.
God, you're good.
We're thankful for this
time to meet together.
We're thankful that
your presence was here.
And Lord, may you send
us out with it as well.
And we pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.